Updates to cost insights (#8810)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/explore/explore-cost-data.md

Author: ```suggestion
The project dashboard includes the following tabs that help you analyze cost and optimization trends over time.  Use the **Assets** dropdown on the chart to filter by **Models**, **Tests**, or **All**.
```

Reviewer: Need to re-order this as well

### Visualization tabs

> The project dashboard includes the following tabs that help you analyze cost and optimization trends over time.  Use the **Assets** dropdown on the chart to filter by **Models**, **Tests**, or **All**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project dashboard includes the following tabs that help you analyze cost and optimization trends over time. Use the **Assets** dropdown on the chart to filter by **Models**, **Tests**, or **All**.
```
I think it would make sense to move this as a new item under ### Filters? Like:

- **Assets**: All, Models, Tests

> - **Cost**: Shows the estimated build cost reduction when using state-aware orchestration.

Author: @luna-bianca I think I can't see this because I don't have permissions

Reviewer: Cost tab is still available (I'd rearrange the order of the tabs in the doc just so it follows how they're displayed in the UI)

<img width="1047" height="467" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/23b88968-6c1c-4d1b-b77d-d67cda85fbd7" />

### Visualization tabs

The project dashboard includes the following tabs that help you analyze cost and optimization trends over time.  Use the **Assets** dropdown on the chart to filter by **Models**, **Tests**, or **All**.

- **Cost**: Shows the estimated build cost reduction when using state-aware orchestration.
- **Query run time**: Shows the estimated reduction in build time when using state-aware orchestration.

> - **Builds**: Shows the number of assets built versus reused by state-aware orchestration.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Builds**: Shows total builds split into number of assets rebuilt and assets reused by state-aware orchestration.
```

- **Usage**: Shows the estimated warehouse usage consumed and the reduction in usage from state-aware orchestration over the selected timeframe. The **Usage** tab represents generic usage for your warehouse. The specific unit depends on your data warehouse:
    - Snowflake: Credits
    - BigQuery: Slot hours or bytes scanned (currently combined into one generic usage number)
    - Databricks: Databricks Units (DBUs)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

- **Cost**: Shows the estimated build cost reduction when using state-aware orchestration.
- **Query run time**: Shows the estimated reduction in build time when using state-aware orchestration.

> - **Builds**: Shows the number of assets built versus reused by state-aware orchestration. Use the **Asset type** dropdown on the chart to filter by **Models**, **Tests**, or **All**.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Builds**: Shows total builds split into number of assets rebuilt and assets reused by state-aware orchestration.
```

- **Usage**: Shows the estimated warehouse usage consumed and the reduction in usage from state-aware orchestration over the selected timeframe. The **Usage** tab represents generic usage for your warehouse. The specific unit depends on your data warehouse:
    - Snowflake: Credits
    - BigQuery: Slot hours or bytes scanned (currently combined into one generic usage number)
    - Databricks: Databricks Units (DBUs)

> On the **Cost**, **Usage**, **Query run time**, and **Builds** tabs, use the **Asset type** dropdown on each chart to filter the data by **Models**, **Tests**, or **All**. Your selection is remembered separately for each tab.

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Filters

For **Runs**, **Usage**, **Query run time**, and **Builds** tabs, you can customize the cost data you want to view by:

> - **Last**: 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, 6 months, or 1 year

Author: ```suggestion
- **Last**: Week, 14 days, 30 days (Runs tab only)
- **Last**: 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, 6 months, or 1 year
```

### Filters

For **Runs**, **Usage**, **Query run time**, and **Builds** tabs, you can customize the cost data you want to view by:

- **Last**: Week, 14 days, 30 days (Runs tab only)
- **Last**: 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, 6 months, or 1 year
- **View**: Daily, Weekly, Monthly

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Filters

> For **Runs**, **Usage**, **Query run time**, and **Builds** tabs, you can customize the cost data you want to view by:

Author: @luna-bianca Should **Runs** say Cost or  both? I'm not sure If I can't see "Cost" because I don't have perms or is it renamed?

Reviewer: We have both Runs and Cost tabs:

<img width="312" height="85" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/119e3031-0376-4b2c-8d4c-d2156f03d1e3" />

We can change this to:

```suggestion
For the **Runs** tab, you can filter the data by **Last**: Week, 14 days, or 30 days.

For **Cost**, **Usage**, **Query run time**, and **Builds** tabs, you can customize the cost data you want to view by:
```

> - **Last**: Week, 14 days, 30 days (Runs tab only)

Reviewer: Deleting this because we're adding a new line in 105
```suggestion
```

- **Last**: 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, 6 months, or 1 year
- **View**: Daily, Weekly, Monthly

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Assets**: All, Models, Tests
```

### Filters

> For **Run duration**, **Cost**, **Builds**, and **Usage** tabs, you can customize the cost data you want to view by:

Author: ```suggestion
For **Runs**, **Usage**, **Query run time**, and **Builds** tabs, you can customize the cost data you want to view by:
```

- **Last**: 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, 6 months, or 1 year
- **View**: Daily, Weekly, Monthly

> On the **Cost**, **Usage**, **Query run time**, and **Builds** tabs, use the **Asset type** dropdown on each chart to filter the data by **Models**, **Tests**, or **All**. Your selection is stored per tab, so you can view models on one tab and tests on another without changing the other tab’s filter.

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Filters

> For the **Runs** tab, you can filter the data by **Last**: Week, 14 days, or 30 days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Runs** tab, use the **Last** filter to view data from the past week, 14 days, or 30 days.
```

> In the **Runs** tab, use the **Last** filter to view data from the past week, 14 days, or 30 days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the **Runs** tab, you can use the **Last** filter to view data from the past week, 14 days, or 30 days.
```

- **Runs**: Displays the success rate and run duration in minutes for recent runs. You can select a time period with options for **Last week**, **Last 14 days**, and **Last 30 days**.
- **Query run time**: Shows the estimated query execution time and the reduction in run duration from state-aware orchestration.
- **Cost**: Shows the estimated build cost reduction when using state-aware orchestration.

> - **Builds**: Shows the number of assets built versus reused by state-aware orchestration. Use the **Asset type** dropdown on the chart to filter by **Models**, **Tests**, or **All**.

Reviewer: Since the Assets filter is applicable to most of the charts, we can add this under the Filters section. 
```suggestion
- **Builds**: Shows the number of assets built versus reused by state-aware orchestration.
```

- **Usage**: Shows the estimated warehouse usage consumed and the reduction in usage from state-aware orchestration over the selected timeframe. The **Usage** tab represents generic usage for your warehouse. The specific unit depends on your data warehouse:
    - Snowflake: Credits
    - BigQuery: Slot hours or bytes scanned (currently combined into one generic usage number)
    - Databricks: Databricks Units (DBUs)

### Table view 

> For **Run duration**, **Cost**, **Builds**, and **Usage** tabs, you can access the table view by clicking **Show table**, which provides detailed optimization data such as models reused, usage reduction, and cost reduction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For **Cost**, **Usage**, **Query run time**, and **Builds** tabs, you can access the table view by clicking **Show table**, which provides detailed optimization data such as models reused, usage reduction, and cost reduction.
```
